---
title: "20230403 Today I Learned"
date: 2023-04-03T08:29:09-05:00
draft: false
---

Technically "this weekend I learned" but still. Maybe even better "what I learned in the 2 - 3 hours I was able
to squeeze out for coding this weekend". ... anyways ...

I've been using my free time to continue to work on the Docker Registry with bittorrent distribution project. I had
been very happy with the ChatGPT generated code in the past, but when I really started debugging it I did not
find an cohesive logic that allowed me to understand the intent of the code that would allow me to fix the broken
parts generated by ChatGPT.

Well, a professional might start from an OpenAPI specification anyways. A search on Google yielded such a specification, which,
when run through openapi-generator yielded a Rust Tokio solution. I'm getting more familiar with rust, so afer some study the
intended usage of the code made sense.

Soon after I ran into what appears to my first promise of Rust, broken. The issue is this line here:

{{< highlight rust>}}
        Ok(V2NameBlobsDigestGetResponse::
            TheBlobIdentifiedByDigestIsAvailable_2(
                ByteArray::from(swagger::ByteArray(contents))))
{{< / highlight >}}

The last expression in the ByteArray::from() call warns as "swagger::ByteArray" not needed, and suggests I remove it while Rust
nicely refuses to compile with warnings.

Ok! This is the promised helpful compiler messages in action, right? Let's take that out then.

Now the code won't compiled because "contents" is the wrong type.

After a few cycles of that I found the directive to override warnings and compile anyways. The code now looks like

{{< highlight rust>}}
       #[allow(warnings)]
        Ok(V2NameBlobsDigestGetResponse::
            TheBlobIdentifiedByDigestIsAvailable_2(
                ByteArray::from(swagger::ByteArray(contents))))
{{< / highlight >}}

I'm actually pleased that the code refused to compile with warnings. I've seem code bases with over ten thousand warnings that 
there is a potential nil defreference in C# that the developers happily ignored. In my belief, warnings should be treated as 
errors until overwritten. 

That does not look like much, but I spend tons of time in documentation learning about other Rust language features along the
way, debugging some match statements by studying generated code to see the generation pattern, and reading lots of Tokio 
documentation to understand what the existing code does and what I am intended to fill in.

All in all, a short but satisfying session. I see why people want Go for web services, especially serverless though. A memory leak in a serverless function will initially seem to have no effect because the function shuts down between calls. Until you start to 
scale and the cloud provider never gets a chance to shut it down -- then your issue will show up. In other words, Go lets you get it out
faster; Rust works on keeping your long term maintenance costs low. It's the maintenance costs that matter in the long term, but a
startup might thing time to market is more important.